--- BEGIN of the Human-Rights Respectful Open Source License ---

LICENSE/CONTRACT:  
  NAME: HUMAN-RIGHTS RESPECTFUL OPEN SOURCE LICENSE/CONTRACT.  
  Version(y-m-d) 2020-11-07.  
  Copyright (C) 2020 Erik T. Ashfolk. (atErik-at-Ashfolk-dot-com)  
  Copyright (C) 2020 Emde T. Ashfolk. (emde-at-Ashfolk-dot-com)  

THIS ITEM (SHIDSP=software,hardware,info,data,service,project):  
Human-Rights Respectful Open Source License/Contract (HR-ROSL):  
A license that allows opensource software,hardware,information,  
data,service,project,etc for Human-Rights Respectful usage.  
Copyright (C) 2020 Erik T. Ashfolk. (atErik-at-Ashfolk-dot-com)  
Copyright (C) 2020 Emde T. Ashfolk. (emde-at-Ashfolk-dot-com)  
This item is released with Human-Rights Respectful Open Source  
License/Contract (HR-ROSL) version(y-m-d): 2020-11-07.

Redistribution and use of this SDSP/SHIDSP (here SDSP/SHIDSP is  
pointing to the above mentioned software/hardware/info/data/  
service/project,etc), which is accompanying this license/contract  
in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are  
permitted provided that the following ten sections of conditions  
are met:

1. Redistributions of this SDSP (software, source code, service,
data, project, etc) must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of ten sections of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of ten sections of conditions and the
following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
provided with the distribution from this SDSP.

3. Modifications to this SDSP (software, source code, data,
service, project, etc) must retain above copyright notice, this
list of ten sections of conditions, and the following disclaimer,
and may not include further conditions or licensing which go
against the spirit of this license.

4. Here we use "HR" = Human-Rights. "CH" = Copyright-Holder(s).
This SDSP (software/data/service/project) must not be used to
violate or abuse (any) HR, either directly or indirectly in any
form.  This SDSP must not be used to violate or abuse HR in any
form in any physical location, written articles, media, video,
broadcast, etc or in any form inside cyberspace/Internet.  This
SDSP license/contract is declaring/stating in early to you, user
of this SDSP, that, this SDSP must not be used to violate / abuse
any human-rights even for "National Security" excuse/reason : As
nothing (not even "National Security" or court order/decision or
voted decision) can be above "Human-Rights".  This SDSP license/
contract is further declaring and stating in early to you : any
result/decision from any voting, or any order or decision from
any court, to override usage of this SDSP or SDSP content to
violate/abuse HR, is hereby declared null-and-void and illegal.

5. This SDSP(software/data/service/project) must not be used to
cause deliberate harm to any human individual,group,community or
country either directly or indirectly, in any form.

6. This SDSP(software/data/service/project) must not be used for
stealing any data or physical items, and this SDSP must not be
used to violate or abuse any privacy rights, of any human/person
individual, group, organization, community, country or earth,
either indirectly or directly in any form.  This SDSP must not be
used for any type of stealing : spying, data collection, etc
without first obtaining written fully aware & voluntary specific
consent from each human/person individual,group, subject,etc, and
also not without obtaining prior permission from this SDSP CH
(copyright-holders).  This SDSP must not be used for any type of
digital (or physical) jail : monitoring, tracking,etc not-without
obtaining permission from each subject's written fully-aware and
voluntary consent, & also not-without obtaining prior permission
from this SDSP CH.  You agree that this SDSP license/contract
invalidates any type of (direct/indirect) permission to spy/steal
/collect. Invalidates (any permission) which was & is or will-be
obtained from any judge(s), representative, proxy, jury, court or
vote,etc.  To obtain exception/permission from CH of this SDSP,
CH must be provided proof of real voluntary consented permission
directly from each subject even if there are billions of subjects
where this SDSP is being used, and such must not violate/abuse HR
(human-rights).  This SDSP license/contract is declaring+stating
to you in early, that, any type of voting result or decision
whether based on representative or proxy or directly from people,
or any order/decision from any court/judge, to use this SDSP for
mass scale (data) stealing/collection, etc are still HR violation
and abuse of HR, and any such decision/order is/are hereby
declared null-and-void and illegal.

7. This SDSP(software/data/service/project) must not be used by
any Military or branches, Law Enforcement or branches, or by any
service/items provider or supplier of/for Military or Law
Enforcement.  Unless specific written exception/permission is
obtained from CH(copyright holders) of this SDSP.  This SDSP is
not-allowed to be used, even if you deceptively change: Military,
offense, attack, kill, steal, violate,etc into "Defense", "Love",
"Human-Rights", etc.

8. This SDSP (software/data/service/project) must not be used by
any Human-Rights-violating-or-abusing = "HR-v-o-a" entity or
person: HR-v-o-a Government(Gov), HR-v-o-a Gov branches, HR-v-o-a
public offices, Gov/public funded HR-v-o-a individual, companies,
groups, corporations, businesses, organizations,etc, any HR-v-o-a
private individual, offices, companies, corporations, businesses,
groups, organizations, etc Or any human/contractor person working
in/for any of mentioned entities in this section.

9. This SDSP(software/data/service/project) license/contract
stating and declaring to you in early, that, you are permitting
this SDSP CH(copyright holders) to question & obtain answer+proof
in prior from you and any other sources by any means, to find-out
if there is record(s) or potential of this SDSP being used for
any HR (human-rights) violation or abuse.  This SDSP license/
contract further stating to you : upon any report of HR violation
or abuse by the user (you) of this SDSP or by this SDSP itself,
this license/contract authorizes CH to obtain detail usage
information from you/user of this SDSP, and also authorizes CH to
obtain further related information/proof from any other sources
by any means, including obtaining any data which even if you have
defined as type of "secret" data, etc and then these are to be
used for realizing the level of HR violations & abuses & losses
therein.  You completely agree and permit, that, any type of HR
violation or abuse by you automatically removes all protection
of all related data, including any type of "secret" data, and
brings those under public & international sector and scrutiny,
to find-out detail of HR violations/abuses, to deter HR abuses/
violations.  You agree, that, all data from any public money
funded any type of Military,Governement,public,private,etc any
office/branch/agency,etc is public data.  This license/contract
also permits CH to seek compensation, remedy, etc related to HR
violation & abuse.  This license/contract permits CH to terminate
this license/contract, when CH decide(s) to do so at any time at
CH's will.  This license/contract also stating and declaring to
you in early, that, especially after above mentioned incidents,
CH of this SDSP are automatically authorized to investigate and
proceed to international or public court, even if you fail or
succeed in providing detail data.  This SDSP license/contract
allows CH to proceed in court by themselves, or by choosing thier
nominated/representative team/individual in court.  This SDSP
license/contract is further declaring and stating to you in
early : any decision or order from any type of "secret" or
non-public nature of court(s), judge/jury, representative, proxy
or vote, is hereby declared invalid and null-and-void, from
overriding any prceedings into international or public court.
Any HR violation/abuse must be resolved publicly, so that even
coercion/corruption can become public knowledge.  This license/
contract also stating you/user of this SDSP : upon HR violation/
abuse report/incident, CH at their/his/her will can also publish
publicly what HR abuse/violation has occurred, and what steps are
taken to solve.

10. If you do not agree with these all conditions mentioned in
this license/contract, then you cannot use this SHIDSP(software/
hardware/info/data/service/project,etc) in any form directly or
indirectly. You are free & welcome to choose any other software/
choice.  This SHIDSP has shown these conditions at every stage
in beginning or top, or agreement was/is obtained with "yes/no".
Any type of usage of this SHIDSP grants this SHIDSP CH(copyright
holders) your full consent of your full acceptance & agreements
with all conditions and terms specified inside ten sections of
conditions in this SHIDSP license/contract.  This license/
contract will make every attempts+efforts to avoid any and all
type HR ("Human-Rights") abuses/violations, related to where this
SHIDSP is used and who is using this SHIDSP, etc.  So, please,
do not use this SHIDSP, if you cannot uphold or honour all HR.
If you use this SHIDSP, please make sure you are honoring and
upholding all HR to your best ability and effort : all
international HR constitution(s), and local HR constitution(s)
when local HR constitution(s) are not-violating, not-abusing,
not-overriding international HR constitution(s).  This SHIDSP
license/contract, stating to you in early, you completely agree,
that : this SHIDSP's CH(copyright holders) can team-up with this
SHIDSP's License creators, that is: HR-ROSL license creators,
for anything related to these ten sections of conditions
specified in this license/contract.  This SHIDSP's license/
contract creator (the HR-ROSL license creators), can deny/permit,
invalidate/approve, override, etc this SHIDSP license/contract
any time based on their decision/choices, in accordance with ten
sections of conditions specified in HR-ROSL license/contract and
in this SHIDSP's license/contract. This SHIDSP's license/contract
is in turn based on HR-ROSL license/contract, so CH and any users
of this SHIDSP are agreeing and in agreement with ten sections of
conditions of the HR-ROSL license/contract.  HR-ROSL license/
contract creators are also granted all the permissions, etc which
are specified here for this SHIDSP's CH, and HR-ROSL license/
contract creators are granted also those, which are needed for
stopping Human-Rights violation & abuse, and to stop usage of
this SHIDSP/item.


DISCLAIMER: THIS ITEM/SHIDSP(SOFTWARE/HARDWARE/INFO/DATA/SERVICE/
PROJECT),ETC FOR THIS ITEM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" BY THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS, AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER, AUTHORS,
CONTRIBUTORS OR ORIGINAL LICENSE "HUMAN-RIGHTS-ROSL"(HUMAN-RIGHTS
RESPECTFUL OPEN-SOURCE LICENSE) CREATORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, MONEY,
POSSESSIONS, OR LIFE; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED
AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS ITEM/SHIDSP, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--- END of the Human-Rights Respectful Open Source License ---





Human-Rights Respectful Open Source License,  
is also-known-as "HumanRightsROSL".
HR-ROSL.



Author: Erik T. Ashfolk. atErik -at- Ashfolk -dot- com.
Author: Emde T. Ashfolk. emde -at- Ashfolk -dot- com.

Copyright (C) 2020 Erik T. Ashfolk. (atErik-at-Ashfolk-dot-com)  
Copyright (C) 2020 Emde T. Ashfolk. (emde-at-Ashfolk-dot-com)  

Permission is granted to copy, redistribute this Human-Rights  
Respectful Open Source License (HR-ROSL), in accordance with  
HR-ROSL license/contract conditions detailed in above, without  
breaking the original spirit of this license.  
Permission granted to modify topside copyright section of this  
HR-ROSL license/contract, in accordance with conditions of  
license & without breaking the original spirit of this license,  
to use it as a license for your SHIDSP (software/hardware/
information/data/service/project),etc.



Notes:  
   Clause 1 and 2 come from the BSD 2-Clause license.  
   Clause 3 is meant to ensure that the SDSP continues to be open  
            and available to the public.  
   Clause 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 are:
            "No Harmful Use",  
            "Not Allowed To Use For Stealing of Private Cyber/Physcial Items",  
            "Not Allowed To Use For Violating Any Human-Rights",  
            "No Military Use",  
            "Not Allowed To Use In HumanRights Violating or Abusing Office/Business",  
            "When/After Violation Occured",  
            "Termination Of License/Contract", etc clause(s).  
   The disclaimer is adapted from the BSD 2-Clause license.  
